README.md, before:

# Diff & Commit AI

Diff & Commit AI is a modern, interactive desktop application designed to streamline the process of comparing, reviewing, and refining text versions. Unlike traditional diff tools which are often static or developer-focused, this tool provides a rich, user-friendly interface for content creators, editors, and prompt engineers to intelligently merge text.

## Key Features

### 🔍 Interactive Difference Engine
-   **Smart Diffing**: Highlights additions (Green), removals (Red), and modifications with proper line break preservation.
-   **Interactive Merging**: Click any highlighted segment to toggle its state.
    -   *Reject* an addition to remove it.
    -   *Restore* a deletion to keep the original text.
-   **Smart Swapping**: Automatically links replaced text (e.g., changing "cat" to "dog") so clicking one instantly toggles the other, preventing logical errors.
-   **Undo/Redo History**: Full state management allows you to safely roll back changes.
-   **Refresh Diff**: After editing the preview, click "Refresh Diff" to re-compare against the original.

### 🤖 AI-Powered Enhancements
-   **AI Available Immediately**: AI editing functions are available as soon as you enter text—no need to compare first.
-   **Multi-Model Support**: Switch instantly between top-tier models like **DeepSeek v3.2**, **Claude Haiku 4.5**, **GPT-OSS 120B**, **Google Gemini 3 Pro**, and more via OpenRouter.
-   **Cost Tier Indicators**: Models display dollar sign indicators ($-$$$$) in the dropdown to help anticipate costs before selection.
-   **AI Summary**: Generates a concise changelog of differences between versions.
-   **AI Polish**: Smooths out your final text with distinct modes:
    -   **Spelling Only**: Fixes typos without altering style.
    -   **Grammar Fix**: Corrects syntax and punctuation while preserving tone.
    -   **Full Polish**: Improves flow, clarity, and vocabulary (never alters opinions or factual claims).
    -   **Prompt Expansion**: Expands brief ideas into detailed AI instructions.
    -   **Execute Prompt**: Runs the current text as a prompt—the AI carries out the instructions and returns the result.
-   **Cancellable Operations**: Cancel any in-progress AI operation with a single click to avoid getting stuck.

### 🛡️ AI Fact Checker
Verify factual claims in your text using **Perplexity Sonar Pro** with real-time web search capabilities.

-   **Two-Stage Verification**:
    1.  **Claim Extraction**: Uses a fast, cost-effective model (DeepSeek v3.2) to identify all factual claims in your text.
    2.  **Web Verification**: Each claim is verified using Perplexity's search-enabled AI, which cites real sources.

-   **Claim Categories Detected**:
    -   📊 **Statistical** - Numbers, percentages, data points
    -   📅 **Historical** - Dates, events, historical facts
    -   🔬 **Scientific** - Research findings, scientific consensus
    -   🔗 **Causal** - "X causes Y" claims
    -   📈 **Frequency** - "always", "never", "most" claims
    -   💊 **Medical** - Health and treatment claims
    -   🕵️ **Conspiracy** - Claims about hidden agendas/coverups
    -   📝 **General** - Other factual assertions

-   **Verification Statuses**:
    -   ✅ **Verified** - Claim is accurate and well-sourced
    -   ❌ **False** - Claim is demonstrably incorrect
    -   ⚠️ **Misleading** - Technically true but lacks important context
    -   ❓ **Unverifiable** - Cannot be confirmed or denied

-   **Access**: Available in the "AI Edit..." dropdown menu.

### 📊 Cost Tracking & Quality Control
-   **Real-time Cost Estimation**: Tracks token usage per session and calculates exact costs based on the selected model's pricing.
-   **Performance Logging**: Automatically logs every AI request (Task, Model, Tokens, Cost) to local storage.
-   **User Rating System**: Built-in 5-star rating prompt appears after each AI operation, allowing you to score model performance and save feedback.
-   **Logs Viewer**: Access your complete AI usage history through the logs modal (📊 icon in header):
    -   View all requests with date, model, task type, tokens, cost, and rating.
    -   See aggregate statistics: total cost, token counts, and average rating.
    -   Export logs to CSV for analysis.
    -   Clear all logs to start fresh.

### 📝 Committed Preview & Editing
-   **Real-time Preview**: See exactly what the final text looks like as you toggle differences.
-   **Manual Editing**: The preview pane is fully editable, allowing for final manual tweaks before copying.
-   **Refresh Diff**: After editing the preview, click "Refresh Diff" to see changes compared to the original.
-   **Text-to-Speech**: Built-in "Read Aloud" functionality to audit the rhythm and flow of your text. Select a section to hear just that part.

### 🔄 Git-Style Version Control
-   **Commit Changes**: When satisfied with your edits, click the green "Commit" button to save the current version.
-   **Version History**: Each commit saves the previous text with a version number and timestamp.
-   **Version Badge**: The Commit button displays a badge showing how many versions have been saved.
-   **Workflow**:
    1.  Edit or apply AI polish to your text
    2.  Click "Commit" to save and promote the current text
    3.  Previous version is archived, current becomes the new baseline
    4.  Continue editing from the new baseline

### 🎨 Customization & Accessibility
-   **Dark Mode**: Fully supported high-contrast dark theme (default).
-   **Typography Controls**: Switch between Sans, Serif, and Monospace fonts, and adjust font sizes (S, M, L, XL).
-   **Resizable Split Pane**: Drag the divider to adjust the ratio between the Diff View and the Preview.
-   **Non-Intrusive Alerts**: Error messages and notifications appear as sleek, dismissible toasts.
-   **Clean Slate**: "Clear All" button resets everything for a fresh session.

### 🖱️ Context Menu (Right-Click)
-   **Selection-Aware**: Right-click on selected text in the preview pane to access AI actions.
-   **Available Actions**:
    -   🔊 **Read Selected** - Text-to-speech for selected portion
    -   ✏️ **Spelling / Grammar / Polish** - AI editing on selection only
    -   📝 **Prompt Expansion / Execute** - Prompt operations on selection
    -   🛡️ **Fact Check** - Verify claims in selection
-   **Smart Disable**: Actions are grayed out when no text is selected.

## Streamlined Workflow

### Quick Start
1.  **Paste or type** text in either the left (Original) or right (Revised) panel
2.  **AI Edit** button appears immediately—apply spelling, grammar, or full polish
3.  **Compare Now** (when both panels have text) to see differences
4.  **Toggle segments** to accept/reject individual changes
5.  **Commit** when satisfied to save and start fresh

### Comparison Flow
| Action | Result |
|--------|--------|
| Text in one panel → AI Edit | AI processes text, shows diff |
| Text in both panels → Compare Now | Shows side-by-side differences |
| Edit preview → Refresh Diff | Updates comparison with edits |
| Commit | Archives current, starts new cycle |
| Clear All | Complete reset for new session |

## Architecture & Implementation

### 🚀 Desktop Application (Electron)
Built as a robust desktop application using **Electron** to ensure better system integration, offline capability, and secure local storage.

#### **Build Pipeline**
-   **Bundler**: Vite (configured with `base: './'` for relative path resolution).
-   **Electron Builder**: Packages the application as a standalone `.exe` for Windows.
-   **Scripts**:
    -   `npm run dev`: Runs the Vite development server (browser mode).
    -   `npm run electron:dev`: Runs React (Vite) and Electron concurrently for desktop development.
    -   `npm run electron:build:win`: Builds the production executable for Windows.

### 🔑 API Key Management & Security
To ensure security and user privacy, we implement a dual-storage strategy for API keys:

1.  **Development (.env)**:
    -   Use `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` in your `.env` file for development.
2.  **Production (Local Storage)**:
    -   We use `electron-store` to save user API keys and usage logs locally on their machine.
    -   **IPC Bridge**: Keys and logs are securely handled via `window.electron` methods, isolating the renderer from the file system.

### 🧠 Model Selection & Configuration
We support a curated list of high-performance models to give users flexibility between cost, speed, and intelligence.

-   **Model Registry**: Managed in `constants/models.ts`.
-   **Cost Tiers**: Each model displays a cost indicator:
    -   **$** = Budget (< $0.50/M tokens avg)
    -   **$$** = Standard ($0.50 - $2.00/M tokens avg)
    -   **$$$** = Premium ($2.00 - $5.00/M tokens avg)
    -   **$$$$** = Expensive (> $5.00/M tokens avg)
-   **Supported Providers** (via OpenRouter):
    -   **DeepSeek**: `deepseek-v3.2` - Excellent price/performance ratio.
    -   **Google**: `gemini-3-pro-preview` - Large context window (1M tokens).
    -   **Anthropic**: `claude-haiku-4.5` - Fast and accurate.
    -   **OpenAI**: `gpt-oss-120b` - Budget-friendly option.
    -   **Perplexity**: `sonar-pro` - Search-enabled AI for fact-checking with web citations.
    -   **Others**: Moonshot AI (Kimi K2), xAI (Grok 4.1), MiniMax M2, Z-AI (GLM 4.6), Amazon Nova 2.

## Tech Stack

-   **Frontend**: React 19, TypeScript
-   **Styling**: Tailwind CSS (with `clsx` for dynamic classes)
-   **Icons**: Lucide React
-   **Desktop Framework**: Electron, Electron Builder, Electron Store
-   **Diff Engine**: `diff` library (Words mode)
-   **AI Integration**: OpenRouter API (Centralized hub for all models)
-   **Build Tool**: Vite

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
-   Node.js installed.
-   An **OpenRouter API Key** (get one at [openrouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai)).

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository.
2.  Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```
3.  Set up your environment variables. Copy the example file:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
    Add your `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`.

4.  **Run Development Mode (Browser)**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```
    Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) in your browser.

5.  **Run Development Mode (Electron)**:
    ```bash
    npm run electron:dev
    ```
    This launches the standalone Electron window with hot reload.

6.  **Build for Windows**:
    ```bash
    npm run electron:build:win
    ```
    Output will be in the `release/` directory.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: implement comprehensive project management, AI integration, and new UI components like modals and buttons

README.md, after:

# Diff & Commit AI

Diff & Commit AI is a modern, interactive desktop application designed to streamline the process of comparing, reviewing, and refining text versions. Unlike traditional diff tools which are often static or developer-focused, this tool provides a rich, user-friendly interface for content creators, editors, and prompt engineers to intelligently merge text.

## Key Features

### 🔍 Interactive Difference Engine
-   **Smart Diffing**: Highlights additions (Green), removals (Red), and modifications with proper line break preservation.
-   **Interactive Merging**: Click any highlighted segment to toggle its state.
    -   *Reject* an addition to remove it.
    -   *Restore* a deletion to keep the original text.
-   **Smart Swapping**: Automatically links replaced text (e.g., changing "cat" to "dog") so clicking one instantly toggles the other, preventing logical errors.
-   **Refresh Diff**: After editing the preview, click "Refresh Diff" to re-compare against the original.

### 🤖 AI-Powered Enhancements
-   **AI Available Immediately**: AI editing functions are available as soon as you enter text—no need to compare first.
-   **Multi-Model Support**: Switch instantly between top-tier models like **DeepSeek v3.2**, **Claude Haiku 4.5**, **GPT-OSS 120B**, **Google Gemini 3 Pro**, and more via OpenRouter.
-   **Cost Tier Indicators**: Models display dollar sign indicators ($-$$$$) in the dropdown to help anticipate costs before selection.
-   **AI Polish**: Smooths out your final text with distinct modes:
    -   **Spelling Only**: Fixes typos without altering style.
    -   **Grammar Fix**: Corrects syntax and punctuation while preserving tone.
    -   **Full Polish**: Improves flow, clarity, and vocabulary (never alters opinions or factual claims).
    -   **Prompt Expansion**: Expands brief ideas into detailed AI instructions.
    -   **Execute Prompt**: Runs the current text as a prompt—the AI carries out the instructions and returns the result.
-   **Custom Prompts**: Create, edit, and delete your own AI prompts via the Prompts Manager (⚙️ icon). Built-in prompts can be customized and reset to defaults.
-   **Cancellable Operations**: Cancel any in-progress AI operation with a single click to avoid getting stuck.

### 🛡️ AI Fact Checker
Verify factual claims in your text using **Perplexity Sonar Pro** with real-time web search capabilities.

-   **Two-Stage Verification**:
    1.  **Claim Extraction**: Uses a fast, cost-effective model (DeepSeek v3.2) to identify all factual claims in your text.
    2.  **Web Verification**: Each claim is verified using Perplexity's search-enabled AI, which cites real sources.

-   **Claim Categories Detected**:
    -   📊 **Statistical** - Numbers, percentages, data points
    -   📅 **Historical** - Dates, events, historical facts
    -   🔬 **Scientific** - Research findings, scientific consensus
    -   🔗 **Causal** - "X causes Y" claims
    -   📈 **Frequency** - "always", "never", "most" claims
    -   💊 **Medical** - Health and treatment claims
    -   🕵️ **Conspiracy** - Claims about hidden agendas/coverups
    -   📝 **General** - Other factual assertions

-   **Verification Statuses**:
    -   ✅ **Verified** - Claim is accurate and well-sourced
    -   ❌ **False** - Claim is demonstrably incorrect
    -   ⚠️ **Misleading** - Technically true but lacks important context
    -   ❓ **Unverifiable** - Cannot be confirmed or denied

-   **Access**: Available in the "AI Edit..." dropdown menu.

### 📊 Cost Tracking & Quality Control
-   **Real-time Cost Estimation**: Tracks token usage per session and calculates exact costs based on the selected model's pricing.
-   **Performance Logging**: Automatically logs every AI request (Task, Model, Tokens, Cost) to local storage.
-   **User Rating System**: Built-in 5-star rating prompt appears after each AI operation, allowing you to score model performance and save feedback.
-   **Logs Viewer**: Access your complete AI usage history through the logs modal (📊 icon in header):
    -   View all requests with date, model, task type, tokens, cost, and rating.
    -   See aggregate statistics: total cost, token counts, and average rating.
    -   Export logs to CSV for analysis.
    -   Clear all logs to start fresh.

### 📝 Committed Preview & Editing
-   **Real-time Preview**: See exactly what the final text looks like as you toggle differences.
-   **Manual Editing**: The preview pane is fully editable, allowing for final manual tweaks before copying.
-   **Refresh Diff**: After editing the preview, click "Refresh Diff" to see changes compared to the original.
-   **Text-to-Speech**: Built-in "Read Aloud" functionality to audit the rhythm and flow of your text. Select a section to hear just that part.

### ✨ Multi-Selection (Ctrl+Drag)
-   **Discontinuous Selection**: Hold **Ctrl** while dragging to add multiple, non-contiguous text selections.
-   **Auto Word Expansion**: Selections automatically snap to word boundaries—no need to precisely highlight every character.
-   **Automatic Merge**: Overlapping or adjacent selections are intelligently merged.
-   **AI on Selection**: All AI operations (Polish, Grammar, Spell Check, etc.) work on multi-selections, processing each range individually with indexed results.
-   **Visual Feedback**: Selected ranges are highlighted with overlays for clear visibility.

### 🔄 Git-Style Version Control
-   **Commit Changes**: When satisfied with your edits, click the green "Commit" button to save the current version.
-   **Version History**: Each commit saves the previous text with a version number and timestamp.
-   **Version Badge**: The Commit button displays a badge showing how many versions have been saved.
-   **Workflow**:
    1.  Edit or apply AI polish to your text
    2.  Click "Commit" to save and promote the current text
    3.  Previous version is archived, current becomes the new baseline
    4.  Continue editing from the new baseline

### 🎨 Customization & Accessibility
-   **Dark Mode**: Fully supported high-contrast dark theme (default).
-   **Typography Controls**: Switch between Sans, Serif, and Monospace fonts, and adjust font sizes (S, M, L, XL).
-   **Resizable Split Pane**: Drag the divider to adjust the ratio between the Diff View and the Preview.
-   **Non-Intrusive Alerts**: Error messages and notifications appear as sleek, dismissible toasts.
-   **Clean Slate**: "Clear All" button resets everything for a fresh session.

### 🖱️ Context Menu (Right-Click)
-   **Selection-Aware**: Right-click on selected text in the preview pane to access AI actions.
-   **Multi-Selection Support**: Works with single or multi-selected text ranges.
-   **Available Actions**:
    -   🔊 **Read Selected** - Text-to-speech for selected portion
    -   ✏️ **Spelling / Grammar / Polish** - AI editing on selection only
    -   📝 **Prompt Expansion / Execute** - Prompt operations on selection
    -   🛡️ **Fact Check** - Verify claims in selection
    -   📋 **Custom Prompts** - Any user-created prompts appear in the menu
-   **Smart Disable**: Actions are grayed out when no text is selected.

## Streamlined Workflow

### Quick Start
1.  **Paste or type** text in either the left (Original) or right (Revised) panel
2.  **AI Edit** button appears immediately—apply spelling, grammar, or full polish
3.  **Compare Now** (when both panels have text) to see differences
4.  **Toggle segments** to accept/reject individual changes
5.  **Commit** when satisfied to save and start fresh

### Comparison Flow
| Action | Result |
|--------|--------|
| Text in one panel → AI Edit | AI processes text, shows diff |
| Text in both panels → Compare Now | Shows side-by-side differences |
| Edit preview → Refresh Diff | Updates comparison with edits |
| Commit | Archives current, starts new cycle |
| Clear All | Complete reset for new session |

## Architecture & Implementation

### 🚀 Desktop Application (Electron)
Built as a robust desktop application using **Electron** to ensure better system integration, offline capability, and secure local storage.

#### **Build Pipeline**
-   **Bundler**: Vite (configured with `base: './'` for relative path resolution).
-   **Electron Builder**: Packages the application as a standalone `.exe` for Windows.
-   **Scripts**:
    -   `npm run dev`: Runs the Vite development server (browser mode).
    -   `npm run electron:dev`: Runs React (Vite) and Electron concurrently for desktop development.
    -   `npm run electron:build:win`: Builds the production executable for Windows.

### 🔑 API Key Management & Security
To ensure security and user privacy, we implement a dual-storage strategy for API keys:

1.  **Development (.env)**:
    -   Use `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` in your `.env` file for development.
2.  **Production (Local Storage)**:
    -   We use `electron-store` to save user API keys and usage logs locally on their machine.
    -   **IPC Bridge**: Keys and logs are securely handled via `window.electron` methods, isolating the renderer from the file system.

### 🧠 Model Selection & Configuration
We support a curated list of high-performance models to give users flexibility between cost, speed, and intelligence.

-   **Model Registry**: Managed in `constants/models.ts`.
-   **Cost Tiers**: Each model displays a cost indicator:
    -   **$** = Budget (< $0.50/M tokens avg)
    -   **$$** = Standard ($0.50 - $2.00/M tokens avg)
    -   **$$$** = Premium ($2.00 - $5.00/M tokens avg)
    -   **$$$$** = Expensive (> $5.00/M tokens avg)
-   **Supported Providers** (via OpenRouter):
    -   **DeepSeek**: `deepseek-v3.2` - Excellent price/performance ratio.
    -   **Google**: `gemini-3-pro-preview` - Large context window (1M tokens).
    -   **Anthropic**: `claude-haiku-4.5` - Fast and accurate.
    -   **OpenAI**: `gpt-oss-120b` - Budget-friendly option.
    -   **Perplexity**: `sonar-pro` - Search-enabled AI for fact-checking with web citations.
    -   **Others**: Moonshot AI (Kimi K2), xAI (Grok 4.1), MiniMax M2, Z-AI (GLM 4.6), Amazon Nova 2.

## Tech Stack

-   **Frontend**: React 19, TypeScript
-   **Styling**: Tailwind CSS (with `clsx` for dynamic classes)
-   **Icons**: Lucide React
-   **Desktop Framework**: Electron, Electron Builder, Electron Store
-   **Diff Engine**: `diff` library (Words mode)
-   **AI Integration**: OpenRouter API (Centralized hub for all models)
-   **Build Tool**: Vite
-   **Architecture**: Custom React hooks (`useDiffState`, `useScrollSync`, `useElectronMenu`, `useCommitHistory`, `usePrompts`, `useMultiSelection`) for clean separation of concerns

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
-   Node.js installed.
-   An **OpenRouter API Key** (get one at [openrouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai)).

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository.
2.  Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```
3.  Set up your environment variables. Copy the example file:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
    Add your `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`.

4.  **Run Development Mode (Browser)**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```
    Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) in your browser.

5.  **Run Development Mode (Electron)**:
    ```bash
    npm run electron:dev
    ```
    This launches the standalone Electron window with hot reload.

6.  **Build for Windows**:
    ```bash
    npm run electron:build:win
    ```
    Output will be in the `release/` directory.

## License

MIT
